Purpose of the program
======================

Renamer.py is a script to rename files on the command-line, inspired by 
bulk-rename from Thunar but doesn't require any libraries but for standard Python ones.
Renamer.py is also python3 ready.

There's also a Lua version, renamer.lua, that only depends on [Lua Filesystem](http://keplerproject.github.com/luafilesystem/)
to work. Features are the same as for the Python version, only options are slightly different. See below.

Use
===

Renamer.py tries to follow bulk-rename options as much as possible. 
Thus, many of its operations are similar or equal to the Xfce program.
They are:

* **-s/--no-spaces**	substitute spaces in files with underscores.
* **-a/--append**		append a string to the end of filenames. Particularly useful for files lacking an extenxion.
* **-p/--prefix**		prefix a string to filenames.
* **-r/--remove**		completely remove a string in filenames.
* **-m/--minimize**		make the extensions all lowercase.
* **-t/--translate**	translate a serie of characters with another.
* **-n/--numbering**	rename filenames with a new name and adding an incrementing numeration (as "name001.ext, name002.ext" etc.).
* **-d/--date**			add a date to filenames.

Renamer.lua has these set of options:

* **-s/--no-spaces**	substitute spaces in files with underscores.
* **-a/--append=<string>**	append a string to the end of filenames.
* **-p/--prefix=<string>**	prefix a string to filenames.
* **-r/--remove=<string>**	remove a string from filenames.
* **-m/--minimize**		make the extensions all lowercase.
* **-t/--translate=<from>,<to>**	translate a serie of characters with another.
* **-n/--numbering=<numbering>,<name>**		rename filenames with <name> and an incrementing numeration (as "name001.ext, name002.ext" etc.).
* **-d/--date=<date>**	add a date to filenames. Use [today|yesterday|tomorrow|number]
* **-D/--no-dashes**	strip dashes from dates. Only meaningful with **-d, --date**.

License
======

see COPYING
